Previously on
Remember the Wife of Lot.
We wanted to invite you,
all of you,
uh, to the hall this Sunday.
We have a special speaker.
We’ll have to talk about that.
Yeah.
The safest road is to get a good job
with a good company.
Yeah, but should we
be pushing Anna and Tina
to succeed in this system?
We are living at a time
when it is vital that
we do not look back
in a figurative sense.
Brian, this stock is going so well.
You’ve got to join us.
Thanks for thinking of me,
Henry, but I can’t accept it.
Why not?
This is a good opportunity,
and you need more income.
You seem confident, Henry,
but, uh, I’m sorry,
I just can’t accept it.
You don’t trust
my investment strategy.
That’s it, isn’t it?
Just say so.
Look, you already know I think
your latest investments are risky.
And, no, I’m not going to gamble
my meager funds,
but that’s not it.
Brian, these days we’ve got
to risk money to make money.
Don’t you understand that?
Even if there weren’t
any risk involved,
I can’t accept a job offer
that’s going to take
so much of my time and money.
Brian, I don’t get it.
All you have to do is sacrifice
a little time for a couple of years
and you’d have all
the money you need.
Henry,
I hope it works out for you, OK?
But I can’t accept, all right?
Just—just say hi
to Jennifer for me, OK?
All right, bye.
Who was that?
Your client?
That was just your brother.
He wants to get me involved in one
of his investment businesses.
But I don’t have the time
or money for that.
Well, I think we need
to invest our money
into something more secure
like real estate.
And we need to move across town
where we can network
with more influential people.
Is this your mom’s idea?
Because we can’t afford this.
We’re already too much in debt.
Well, look!
We can mortgage this place
and then rent it out.
We’re not taking
full advantage of this opportunity.
We need to put the Kingdom first.
I am putting the Kingdom first,
but this is the time
to think about our future.
How many working years
do we have left anyway?
But if you don’t plan ahead,
we’ll end up living on the street.
Why are you all dressed up like this?
Are-are you going out in service?
I’m going to real estate classes.
What?
We didn’t talk about this!
Why?
If you made more money,
I wouldn’t have to!
We’ve never gone without.
Gloria, wait.
Do you have cash?
I need it for a taxi.
Please?
Hey, boys,
I just heard your dad pull up.
Start getting ready for dinner.
Nice.
Hey, boys.
Hey, Dad.
Hey, Babe.
How is it going?
Oh, all right.
How are you doing?
Good.
What a day.
Hey, dinner
is going to be ready soon,
so go wash up, OK?
Oh, all right, yeah.
Hey, guys, you
want to wrap this game up?
Let’s get ready for dinner.
Here you go.
Hey!
What did I just say?
Put this furniture back,
and get ready for dinner!
There’s something important
we got to talk about tonight.
So, what did you want to talk
about that was so important?
All right.
OK.
Look.
I’ve decided something.
I decided that I want to—
Well, I—I want us all
to start studying the Bible together.
What?
Do you mean you want me
to become a priest?
Come on, Rick.
It’s Jehovah’s Witnesses,
isn’t it, Dad?
I borrowed your book.
I liked it.
Well, I think it’s a good idea.
You know,
I really like those people,
and it seems to be helping you, Joe.
You seem so much happier.
Yeah, oh, yeah, yeah, I am.
So like I said,
that’s what I decided.
But I really want us all
to be in on this together.
All right?
So...
what do you say, boys?
Sure, Dad.
Rick?
Come on, Rick.
Gloria?
Is that you?
Yeah, it’s me.
Gloria, what is all of this?
Oh, it’s some new things
that I picked up today.
I made my first sale today.
Aren’t you happy?
Yeah, that’s-that’s great.
We need the extra income,
but it looks like you spent it already.
Yeah, it’s just a few things.
Uncle told me that I have to look
professional to work for him.
If I’m going to move up and attract
the right type of upscale client,
I have to look the part, you know?
But, Gloria, I thought you
were doing this just to get
a little extra income
for our necessities?
How much time are you
planning to spend on this?
As much as it takes.
You can’t be successful
by working less.
We already have a very full schedule
with our spiritual routine.
We have to make sacrifices
for what’s most important in life.
You know that.
This new job—I’m worried.
It may mean sacrificing time
we should be spending
on spiritual things.
What about your pioneering?
What about it?
I can do both.
All right.
Here you go, Joe, your first door.
OK.
Good morning,
Sir, how are you?
Oh, you people again?
Look, don’t you have real jobs?
I have a real job,
and you keep waking me up.
OK?
I’m sorry, Frank.
Forgive us.
We didn’t mean to upset you, man.
Joe?
Yeah, it’s me, Joe.
I didn’t even recognize you, man.
How are you doing, Joe, man?
Hey, how are you doing, Frank?
I’m sorry.
I’m good.
It’s been a while.
It has.
We used to work together
back in the day.
Oh, OK.
When was the last time
we saw each other?
I think it was that time
we were hauling that lumber.
Oh, when we were loading it,
and then it all fell over in the street.
It fell all over the street.
It took us forever to clean it up.
Forever.
It was terrible.
What you should have seen
was how mad this guy got.
Oh.
He was so mad, man.
You could almost see
the fumes coming out of his ears.
Yeah, that was the old Joe, Frank.
It looks like
I got a new Joe here though.
You’re all dressed up and everything.
Yeah, yeah.
What brings you by?
Well, actually,
we have some good news
we’d like to share with you.
Good news, huh?
OK, I like good news.
Well, why don’t you come on in?
And I’ll get some beers,
and we can talk about this good news.
OK.
But no thanks
on the beers this morning.
Oh, OK.
Well, come on in anyway.
Mom,
this place is so big and fancy.
I could make so much money
if I close this deal today.
Uncle would be so proud.
That’s my little Gloria.
You make me so proud now.
I’ll tell all my relatives
what a big important realtor
my daughter is.
What about Anna?
Did she accept the internship
with your cousin’s business?
You know how hard
I worked to set it up.
I know, Mom.
Thank you so much for everything.
She starts next week.
You make me so happy.
There’s something else.
If I make this sale today,
I’ll have enough
to make the down payment
on the bigger apartment
that I told you about,
the one on the East Side.
The fancy one your uncle’s firm owns?
Yes.
That one.
Oh, I’m so excited.
I know, me too.
I can’t wait to tell everybody.
Mom, I think my clients are here.
I got to go.
Talk to you later, OK?
OK.
Hello, come on in.
Good to see you guys.
The color contrast is very nice
and flows into this living area.
Here’s the contract.
Please sign at the bottom of the page.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
It’s all yours.
Thank you, Gloria.
Enjoy it.
Thank you.
Joe, Mary.
Hi, boys.
Congratulations.
Thanks, Brother Williams.
Thanks so much.
I’m really proud of them all.
Yeah, so am I.
Yeah.
Well, how have you been?
You know, we’ve been good.
Um, it’s like Jesus said,
we always have enough
to pay the bills
and sometimes,
even a little extra.
Ricky, congratulations.
Aw, thank you.
Thank you so much.
I’m so happy for you.
Yeah, but, hey,
I know it’s just the beginning.
Really?
So, what’s next?
Actually,
I want to learn sign language.
Wow!
Maybe join the congregation,
hopefully pretty soon.
That sounds exciting.
Good for you.
I’ve been teaching myself so far.
Yeah.
Um, as far as I’ve gotten is,
“I’m learning sign language.”
And that’s all I know.
That’s very impressive.
You’ve got to start somewhere.
Yeah, that’s true.
Tina.
Come over here.
What are you doing?
I was just congratulating Ricky.
Hi, Tina.
Hi, Gloria.
Hi, Brother Williams.
How are you?
Good.
I would love to talk to you,
but I have an appointment.
I got to go.
Oh.
Talk to you later, OK?
Oh, OK.
Brian,
where is Gloria going?
Is she OK?
Oh, yeah, Brother Williams,
uh, she-she had to leave.
Um, Gloria is going to catch
the rest of the assembly next week.
Um, it’s just been so busy
with her real estate job lately.
We needed the extra money.
You know,
we moved into a better place
over on the east side of town,
well, I’m working
a little bit more too.
I’m just trying to make her happy.
True happiness, Brian
—joy—it’s spiritual.
You can’t satisfy
spiritual needs with material things.
I know, Brother Williams,
but this extra stress,
it’s just temporary.
I’ve-I’ve thought it all through.
We’ve prayed about it,
and we’ve asked
for Jehovah to bless this decision.
Now you know, Brian,
Jehovah God cannot bless a decision
if it is not in harmony with his will.
Look at yourself.
You don’t seem happy.
But what can I do now?
Do all you can to protect
your family spiritually
and to save your girls.
I appreciate the encouragement,
Brother Williams.
You’re welcome.
You know,
it seems like it’s been a while
since we’ve been able to talk like this.
Oh, it has been.
If you’re not busy,
would you be able to come over
and join us for dinner
tomorrow night?
You know,
I would love to do that.
Why don’t you text me
your new address and the time,
and I’ll look forward
to seeing you tomorrow.
That sounds good?
That sounds great.
Excellent.
Thank you, Brother Williams.
I look forward
to seeing you tomorrow.
OK.
Bye-bye.
Hey, Mom,
can I help with anything?
Oh, yeah.
Can you put
the lemons in the water?
OK.
Hey, guys, Brother Williams
is going to be here any minute, OK?
OK.
And Anna and her friend
from the North Congregation
are supposed to come too, right?
Yep, that’s the plan.
I’ll get it.
Thank you, Tina.
Hey, Brother Williams.
Hi, Tina.
Come on in.
How are you?
Good.
It’s good to see you.
Brother Williams, you made it.
Thanks for coming over.
Of course.
Thanks for the invitation.
Very nice.
Welcome.
Hi, Gloria.
Hi, Brother Williams.
I think I’d get lost
in this big apartment.
Jehovah blessed
us for our hard work.
Really, it just means longer hours
on the job and more work
around the house.
You know,
the other day in field service,
we passed by your old house.
I liked that place.
I remember our nice visits there.
I do too.
That was a great place.
Well, Tina, do you want to show
Brother Williams around
while I finish the coffee?
OK, come on in.
Brother Williams
likes the old place.
It seems like he likes it here too.
It all seems very nice.
What do you think
of this place, Tina?
Well, honestly,
I wish we never left the other place.
Really?
Why do you feel that way?
Everything is so different here.
Everything has to look good
for you to fit in.
You have to wear the nicest clothes.
You have to drive
the most expensive car.
Everything is— It’s just—
It’s just different, that’s all.
Yeah, you know, I understand.
I was about your age when we moved
into a new neighborhood,
and it can certainly be challenging.
But you know what might help?
If you set a new goal.
OK, like what?
Well, what do you think?
What interests you?
Well, I was thinking
of learning a new language.
Really?
That’s an excellent goal.
What do you think of Ricky
learning sign language?
Ah, I think it’s really exciting.
I do too.
You know, he is really
making the truth his own,
and if he keeps on applying himself,
Jehovah God is
going to really bless him.
Yeah.
I was hoping to see Anna.
Is Anna here?
Oh, she is with Kevin.
Kevin?
Kevin who?
Kevin is one of our relatives.
They work together
at a pharmaceutical company.
He’s a pretty nice guy
and from a nice family too.
Tina, are you OK?
How do you think Anna is doing?
Um, she’s—
she’s going through
different things right now.
We invited her friend over
from the other congregation
to maybe encourage her.
That’s nice.
But you know,
I have to commend you
because you’re
doing so well spiritually,
keeping up with your spiritual routine,
and you’re thinking about learning
a new language so you can help out.
Keep up the good work.
Don’t give up.
But, Tina, we’re not
going to give up on your sister.
She has the potential of being
a fine servant of Jehovah.
And she has a good heart.
I’m confident that in time,
she’s going to make the right decisions.
Brother Williams,
here is your coffee.
Thank you.
Sorry, Brother Williams,
I have to finish getting ready.
Oh, OK.
This looks really good, Anna.
Good job.
Really?
Thanks.
Hey, we’re still
behind schedule, though,
so I’m going to have to ask
you to work overtime
with the rest of the team
just until we get caught up.
OK?
But I can’t tonight.
I have a family dinner
I have to go to.
Dinner?
Anna, if you want to be successful,
work needs to come first.
Everyone else is doing it.
Fine.
I’ll text my mom
and tell her I can’t make it.
Good.
Don’t worry.
She’ll understand.
It’s not my mom
I’m worried about; it’s my dad.
He doesn’t want me
working late anymore.
Fine, um, I’ll cover for you.
We’re all working late anyways,
so I’ll give everyone a ride home
and afterwards
we’ll step in for a few minutes
and I’ll explain that it’s all my fault.
OK?
OK.
So does this mean
we’re going to meet
those uptight parents of yours?
They’re not that uptight.
I’m kidding.
Lighten up.
Hey, Anna’s family
is pretty conservative,
so just be careful what you do say.
This should be interesting.
Tess, just be nice, OK?
I had a really good time tonight.
I’m glad
Brother Williams could make it.
Yeah, it was very nice.
Yeah, I think
he had a good time too.
Yeah.
Oh, Anna is home.
Hi.
Hey.
It’s customary to take our shoes off.
So—
Oh, OK.
Hey, Kevin is here too.
Come on in, guys.
Um, I know Kevin,
but who are your friends, Anna?
Oh, yeah.
Mom, Dad, this is Tess and Eric.
We’re in the same intern program.
Nice to meet you all.
Come on in.
Have a seat.
Anna, come here.
Um, would you like something
to eat or drink?
Anna,
you missed dinner
with Brother Williams tonight.
And your friend from the North Congregation,
she came too.
What happened?
Dad, I know,
but we had to work late.
I sent Mom a text.
Anna,
I was trying to do something
spiritually encouraging for the family.
We’re worried about you, Honey.
OK, Dad,
I’m sorry,
but it’s no big deal.
It’s just that the new medication
we’re working on,
it goes to market soon.
It’s really important.
It could save people’s lives.
No big deal?
Anna, first of all, you know only
God’s Kingdom will solve our problems.
These kids and your work,
it’s getting in the way
of what’s most important.
Dad, these kids are on my team,
and they understand what I’m
working on, the brothers don’t.
It’s way over their heads.
Anna, don’t you see?
They’re changing you.
Would you relax?
Just go talk to them, OK?
You know,
I really wanted
to apologize to both of you.
It’s my fault that Anna is late today.
I asked the entire team
to work overtime
so we could get caught up
on the schedule.
But just to let you know,
she’s doing really good.
And we really do enjoy
having her on the team.
OK, thank you.
You know,
not just that, she’s working
with some good people.
Tess and Eric,
they’re some of the best
up-and-coming talents
we have in the field.
Your parents
must be really proud of you.
Well, my moms
are both really proud of me.
I was raised by two wonderful women,
you know, life partners.
Oh, huh.
Yeah.
Um, you know,
my assistant, Marty?
I recently found out that he’s gay.
You say that like there’s
something wrong with it.
Do you have a problem?
Tess, don’t do this.
Why?
There’s nothing wrong with being gay.
Tess,
we live by the Bible’s moral standards,
but we don’t force
our beliefs on other people,
and we don’t judge anyone either.
But you do think being gay is wrong.
Eric, remember where we’re at.
Well, we believe there are
standards of right and wrong
that we should live by,
and God’s Word says that
sex is meant to be between
a man and a woman
who are married to each other.
Look,
I don’t mean to be rude, Sir,
but the world has changed.
Honey, maybe we’re being
too harsh on gays.
Some people just seem
to be programmed that way.
Look, I know not everyone
agrees with us,
but we all have free will,
and God lets us choose
to live by his standards or not.
If we go against his standards,
we end up hurting ourselves.
He just wants what’s best for us.
Anna, what about you?
Do you agree with your father?
Well—
You know, we actually have
another project due tomorrow.
It’s probably best
that we get going.
Yeah.
Wait.
At least let me
walk you guys outside.
So this is our Anna’s association.
They’re just kids.
Kids talk like they know everything.
Our Anna believes them.
OK, so I think you
have all the invoices, right?
I gave you all the receipts, right?
Yep, I just got a couple more steps.
OK, Joe,
your books are clean.
I have no more concerns,
and amazingly,
you’re out of debt.
Amazingly.
I don’t-I don’t think so, man.
It’s like you’ve always said,
“If you do things Jehovah’s way,”
right?
“He’ll help us.”
Hey, um, I got to go.
Um, you’ve got
everything that you need.
I think it looks good.
So I’m just going to leave, OK?
Oh, oh, all right, OK.
Hey-hey, Brian, um, could you
stick around for another minute?
There’s something
I need to talk to you about.
Um, yeah, sure.
Yeah, thanks.
Look, Brian, I owe you
a huge debt of gratitude, man.
Um, I was thinking back on
when we first started studying.
Do you remember that?
I had all sorts of issues with my life,
my family, my business.
And my whole life was messed up,
and one of the things that you always
talked to me about was Matthew 6:24.
Do you remember that?
‘No one can serve two masters.
You cannot slave
for God and for Riches.’
I’m sorry, Joe,
I’m not getting it.
What are you trying to say?
Well, I guess
what I’m trying to say is
I’m concerned about you.
About me?
Yes, yes, about you
and your family.
And I’m not talking about financially.
Brian, I’m talking about spiritually.
I mean, you’re the one who
—who always taught me
to never cave in to other
people’s expectations of me.
And now it seems like
—like you’re the one who’s doing that.
Man, what are you
talking about, Joe?
Brian,
your whole life is changing,
man, and not for the better.
Look,
it’s written all over your face!
Listen, you have no idea
how much pressure
Gloria is putting on me.
You don’t know what it’s like
to try to balance two lives
—two worlds—
and try to make it work.
No, man, you’re right.
You’re right.
I don’t know what that’s like.
So don’t tell me
about not changing for the better.
Brian,
all I know is what you taught me.
And what you taught me
was good, man.
You made me look at myself,
my-my family, my whole situation.
And I had to ask myself:
‘Do-do I really know God?
Am I truly happy?’
I mean, what you taught me, Brian,
it gave me something new
—the new world.
It opened that up to me.
It gave me and Mary and the kids,
it gave us all something
to live for, Brian.
But now when I look at you
—my-my teacher,
my brother, my friend—
all I see is an unhappy man.
So I thought it’d be a kind thing
to help you the way you helped me.
Brian,
I made those changes in my life,
the repairs that you
helped me to make.
So I just thought you could use
a little reminder yourself
because, frankly, you’re not
the same person that I once knew.
Man, I got to go.
Thanks for listening.
Next time
on Remember the Wife of Lot.
The way you live reflects on me.
You must learn to keep
your religion in its place.
You could lose all this very easily.
Do you understand?
Think of all we taught the girls
when they were little
about putting Jehovah
ahead of everything else.
This is your copy here.
OK, thank you.
OK.
Director Williams,
this is a nice surprise.
I haven’t seen you since you
were overseeing our division.
But I mean,
what brings you here?
If you have a moment,
I’d love to tell you about it.